- [Tutor] So now we'll take a look at actuator
in Spring boot application,
and how to not only enable it,
but also to extend it.
Let's open up our room-web-app.
Let's go to our pom file,
and we're going to add a dependency.
Spring-boot-starter-actuator.
The group is org.springframework.boot.
Let's run Maven.
So, now we're going to go to source main, resources
and open up our application on properties file.
We want to add a few properties here.
So the first one is
management.endpoints.web.exposure.include.
And we're going to go ahead and include them all
just so we can see them.
Again in the real world, you wouldn't want to do that.
Management.endpoint.health.roles
and this is an important one.
You can define who can see this.
Everybody or specific groups.
We're going to say is the USER role,
'cause that's where our user is, can see this.
And then management details health.show-details,
and we want to set this to when_authorized.
You've got different choices there,
never, always, when_authorized,
we're going to use when_authorized.
And that's it.
Let's go ahead and start up our application.
Now I'm going to do this work in the browser,
instead of in the terminal like I normally do,
and I'm going to show you right here in a moment.
So let's go to localhost 8080/actuator,
and it prompts me for username, password as I would expect.
So user and password are the values we set.
Log in.
So you're seeing we have a whole bunch of data
that populates here from actuator itself.
Let's jump into the health endpoint.
And you'll see that we get a status:UP.
We also get listed in here our components,
and the components that we can see,
are specifically around things like our database,
which is UP.
You'll see that we know that it's a type PostgreSQL
We've got our diskSpace details.
We've got things like ping status,
and you'll see we have rabbit there.
So, both rabbit and PostgreSQL auto config
for the health endpoint.
If we did this with just a web application
without those dependencies, you wouldn't see them.
Those things automatically populate
based on them being on the class path.
Let's also take a look at the env endpoint.
And as you scroll through here,
you're going to see a whole bunch of values
that populate from where things are loaded on the system,
and what values are present.
This can be a very dangerous thing for a bad actor,
so you want to make sure you protect this at the very least.
We also have things like metrics.
And within here,
you can see all the different metrics
that are commonly available for me within the application,
and I can drill down further into them as I wish.
But for now, let's go back to our IDE.
In our IDE,
we're going to create a Custom endpoint.
Now this endpoint isn't going to do a lot,
it's just to show you how to do this.
So, let's create a package,
and we'll call this endpoints.
And in our endpoints package,
we going to create a New Java Class,
and we are going to call this one,
the GreetingEndpoint.
We will annotate this with @Component,
as well as @Endpoint.
And on the @Endpoint,
we want to give it an id, in this case of "greeting."
So this let's us know where under actuator
this Endpoint is going to show up.
Now, we're going to do @ReadOperation,
and there's multiple operations you can choose,
Spring documents them very well.
But we're simply going to return a String called getGreeting.
And as always, whenever we're doing something demo,
we're going to return "Hello world."
But in this case, we'll do "Hello from actuator."
Now, let's restart our application.
Go back to our web browser,
and let's go to actuator/greeting.
Of course, it's going to require me to log in again
because we have a new session,
since we had the restart,
now you'll see that we get this greeting message.
Now, again, this is kind of a dummy example,
it's just to show you what you can do.
There's a lot of times where you're going to have common things
that you need to show across all of your applications.
These can be a great thing to add
to your own starter that brings an actuator.
So instead of you bringing an actuator,
you would bring in your starter,
and we're going to talk about how to build starters
in the next video.
But things like these tend to be cross-cutting,
so you may want to consider doing these in a common starter
for your enterprise.